

                             THE SVARDOS EDITOR


### WHAT IT IS ###############################################################

The SvarDOS editor (SVED) is designed for basic editing of configuration files
and such. It is NOT meant to be a full-featured text editor. On the pro side,
it has a low memory footprint and is only a couple kilobytes big, which makes
it a good fit for bootdisks or systems with extremely limited ressources.

 - runs comfortably on a 8086-class PC with 256 KiB of RAM
 - supports color and monochrome video modes
 - supports extended text modes like 80x43, 80x50...
 - multilingual UI
 - less than 7 KiB of disk footprint
 - loads files larger than 64 KiB
 - no limit on line lengths
 - can load up to 10 files simulteanously
 - handles CR/LF and LF line endings and can convert between the two

What SVED does NOT have:

 - mouse support
 - an integrated file browser
 - copy/paste support
 - undo
 - search
 - ...


### USAGE AND KEY BINDINGS ###################################################

Navigation within the text file is achieved through the usual, standard keys:
 - up, down, right and left arrows
 - PageUp / PageDown
 - Home / End

Jumping to previous or next word is possible with the CTRL+LEFT and CTRL+RIGHT
combinations.

Program's menu is accessible under the ESC key.

SVED can load up to 10 files simultaneously. To switch from one file to
another use the F1..F10 function keys (F1 = slot 1, F2 = slot 2, etc).


### MULTILINGUAL SUPPORT #####################################################

The EDIT.LNG file contains non-english strings. It should be placed in the
same directory where the program's executable resides. The UI language is
controlled by the LANG environment variable, for example SET LANG=PL would
make it display polish strings.

If you rename the EDIT.COM executable, then you need to rename the EDIT.LNG
file accordingly.

You can safely delete the EDIT.LNG file if you do not need non-english UI.


### LICENSE ##################################################################

The SvarDOS editor (SVED) is released under the terms of the MIT license.

Copyright (C) 2023 Mateusz Viste

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.


###################################################################### EOF ###
